\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename muse.info
@settitle Muse
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Muse: (muse). Authoring and publishing environment for Emacs.
@end direntry

@syncodeindex fn cp

@copying
This manual is for Muse version 3.01

Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU General Public License.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Muse manual
@subtitle an authoring and publishing environment
@subtitle for GNU Emacs and XEmacs

@c The following two commands
@c start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c So the toc is printed at the start
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Preface, (dir), (dir)
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@top Muse

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::                     About the documentation
* Introduction::                What is Muse?
* Installation::                How to get the stable and development versions
* Getting Started::             
* Projects::                    Creating a Muse project
* Keystroke Summary::           
* Getting Help and Reporting Bugs::  
* History::                     
* Contributors::                Contributors to this documentation
* GNU General Public License::  
* Concept Index::               

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Installation

* Releases::                    Released versions of Muse
* Development::                 Latest unreleased changes

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Preface, Introduction, Top, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Preface

This document describes Muse, which was written by John Wiegley
and is now maintained by Michael Olson.

This document is a work in progress, and your contribution will be
greatly appreciated.

@node Introduction, Installation, Preface, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Introduction

Emacs Muse is an authoring and publishing environment for Emacs.  It
simplifies the process of writings documents and publishing them to
various output formats.

Muse consists of two main parts: an enhanced text-mode for authoring
documents and navigating within Muse projects, and a set of publishing
styles for generating different kinds of output.

This idea is not in any way new. Numerous systems exist -- even one
other for Emacs itself (Bhl Mode). What Muse adds to the picture is a
more modular environment, with a rather simple core, in which "styles"
are derived from to create new styles. Much of Muse's overall
functionality is optional. For example, you can use the publisher
without the major-mode, or the mode without doing any publishing; or if
you don't load the Texinfo or LaTeX modules, those styles won't be
available.

The Muse codebase is a departure from emacs-wiki.el version 2.44. The
code has been restructured and rewritten, especially its publishing
functions. The focus in this revision is on the authoring and publishing
aspects, and the "wikiness" has been removed as a default behavior (to
be offered again as an optional module). CamelCase words are no longer
special by default.

@node Installation, Getting Started, Introduction, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Installation

@menu
* Releases::                    Released versions of Muse
* Development::                 Latest unreleased changes
@end menu

@node Releases, Development, Installation, Installation
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Installing a release

Choose to install a release if you want to minimize risk.  Currently
Muse is in a pre-release stage, so no official releases have been made
yet.

Errors are corrected in development first.  Once fixes are confirmed, a
new release will be made.  User-visible changes will be announced on the
@email{emacs-wiki-discuss@@nongnu.org} mailing list.  @pxref{Getting
Help and Reporting Bugs}.

@cindex Debian package for Muse

Debian users can get Muse via apt-get.  @file{Muse} is available only at
Michael Olson's Debian repository.

@cindex releases, from source

You can also install the source distribution.

@enumerate
@item Download and unpack the latest version from @uref{http://www.mwolson.org/static/dist/muse/} .
@item Edit your @file{~/.emacs}.

@example
;; Add the directories to your load path
(add-to-list 'load-path "/path/to/muse")
;; Load Muse
(require 'muse)
@end example

@end enumerate

You can download the archive at the following locations:

@itemize
@item Current and past releases: @uref{http://www.mwolson.org/static/dist/muse/}
@end itemize

@node Development,  , Releases, Installation
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Installing the development version
@cindex development

Choose the development version if you want to live on the bleeding
edge of Muse development or try out new features before release.

@cindex arch revision control system, downloading
The Arch revision control system allows you to retrieve previous
versions and select specific features and bug fixes.

Downloading the modules for the first time:

@enumerate
@item Install arch. Debian: @kbd{apt-get install tla} .  Other distros: see @uref{http://regexps.srparish.net/www/} .
@item Register the archive and download the modules.

@example
# Register the archive
tla register-archive http://www.mwolson.org/archives/2005

# Download Muse into the @file{muse/} subdirectory
tla get mwolson@@gnu.org--2005/muse--main--1.0 muse
@end example

@item Open your @file{~/.emacs} and add the @file{Muse/} directory to your load path.

@example
(add-to-list 'load-path "/path/to/muse")
@end example

@end enumerate

To list upstream changes not in local copy:

@example
# Change to the source directory you are interested in. Example:
cd muse/

# Display the summary of changes
tla missing --summary
@end example

@cindex updating Muse with Arch

To update to the latest version:

@example
cd muse
tla replay
@end example

You can also obtain the archive at the following locations on the web:

@itemize
@item Browse arch repository: @uref{http://www.mwolson.org/archives/}
@item Latest development snapshot: @uref{http://www.mwolson.org/static/dist/muse-latest.tar.gz}
@end itemize

The latest development snapshot will be kept up to date since it is
updated at the same time as the Arch repository.


@node Getting Started, Projects, Installation, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Getting Started

To use Muse, add the directory containing its files to your
@code{load-path} variable, in your @file{.emacs} file.  Then, load in
the authoring mode, and the styles you wish to publish to.  For
example:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "<path to Muse>")

(require 'muse-mode)     ; load authoring mode

(require 'muse-html)     ; load publishing styles I use
(require 'muse-latex)
(require 'muse-texinfo)
(require 'muse-docbook)
@end lisp

Once loaded, the command @kbd{M-x muse-publish-this-file} will publish
an input document to any available style.  If you enable
@file{muse-mode} within a buffer, by typing @kbd{M-x muse-mode}, this
command will be bound to @kbd{C-c C-t}.

You should also type @kbd{M-x customize-group}, and give the name
@samp{muse}.  Change it to suit your preferences.  Each of the
options has its own documentation.


@node Projects, Keystroke Summary, Getting Started, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Projects
@cindex projects

Often you will want to publish all the files within a directory to a
particular set of output styles automatically.  To support, Muse
allows for the creations of "projects".  Here is a sample project, to
be defined in your @file{.emacs} file:

@lisp
(require 'muse-project)

(setq muse-project-alist
      '(("website"			; my various writings
         ("~/Pages" :default "index")
         (:base "html" :path "~/public_html")
         (:base "pdf" :path "~/public_html/pdf"))))
@end lisp

The above defines a project named "website", whose files are located
in the directory @file{~/Pages}.  The default page to visit is
@file{index}.  When this project is published, each page will be
output as HTML to the directory @file{~/public_html}, and as PDF to
the directory @file{~/public_html/pdf}.  Within any project page, you
may create a link to other pages using the syntax @samp{[[pagename]]}.

@node Keystroke Summary, Getting Help and Reporting Bugs, Projects, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Keystroke Summary
@cindex keystrokes

Here is a summary of keystrokes available in every Muse buffer:

@table @kbd

@item C-c C-a (`muse-index')
Display an index of all known Muse pages.

@item C-c C-b (`muse-browse-result')
Show the published result of this page.

@item C-c C-e (`muse-edit-link-at-point')
Edit link at point.

@item C-c C-f (`muse-project-find-file'), also C-c C-v
Open another Muse page.  Prompt for the name.

@item C-c C-l (`font-lock-mode')
Highlight/refresh the current buffer.

@item C-c C-p (`muse-project-publish')
Publish any Muse pages that have changed.

@item C-c C-v (`muse-project-find-file'), also C-c C-f
Open another Muse page.  Prompt for the name.

@item C-c = (`muse-what-changed')
Diff this page against the last backup version.

@item TAB
Move to the next Wiki reference.

@item S-TAB
Move to the previous Wiki reference.

@end table


@node Getting Help and Reporting Bugs, History, Keystroke Summary, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Getting Help and Reporting Bugs
@cindex help, getting
@cindex bugs, reporting

After you have read this guide, if you still have questions about
Muse, or if you have bugs to report, there are several places you can
go.

@uref{http://www.mwolson.org/projects/MuseMode.html} is the page that
Michael Olson made for Muse.  For the duration of his
maintainership, it may be considered the official Muse website.

You can join the mailing list at
@email{emacs-wiki-discuss@@nongnu.org} using the subscription form at
@uref{http://mail.nongnu.org/mailman/listinfo/
emacs-wiki-discuss}. This mailing list is also available via Gmane
(@uref{http://gmane.org/}). The group is called
@samp{gmane.emacs.wiki.general}.

@uref{http://www.emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki/MuseMode} is the
emacswiki.org page, and anyone may add tips and hints to it.

You can visit the IRC Freenode channel @samp{#emacs}. Many of the
contributors are frequently around and willing to answer your
questions.  The @samp{#muse} channel is also available for
Muse-specific help, and its current maintainer hangs out there.

You can also contact the maintainer of MuseMode, Michael Olson,
at @email{mwolson@@gnu.org}.

@node History, Contributors, Getting Help and Reporting Bugs, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter History
@cindex history, of Muse

@itemize
@item 2004

John Wiegley started Muse upon realizing that EmacsWiki had some serious
limitations. Around February 2004, he started making "emacs-wiki version
3.00 APLHA", which eventually became known as Muse.

Most of those who frequent the emacs-wiki mailing list continued to use
emacs-wiki, mainly because Planner hasn't been ported over to it.

As of 2004-12-01, Michael Olson became the maintainer of Muse, as per
John Wiegley's request.

@end itemize

@node Contributors, GNU General Public License, History, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Contributors
@cindex contributors

@example
Copyright @copyright{} 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 Free Software Foundation
@end example

The first draft of this document was taken from the emacs-wiki texinfo
manual.  Michael Olson adapted it for Muse and began the process of
adding content to it.

John Sullivan, did a majority of the work on the emacs-wiki texinfo
manual.

While Sacha Chua maintained emacs-wiki, she worked quite a bit on the
emacs-wiki texinfo manual.

@node GNU General Public License, Concept Index, Contributors, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@appendix GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
@center Version 2, June 1991
@cindex GPL
@cindex GNU General Public License

@c This file is intended to be included in another file.

@display
Copyright @copyright{} 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
@end display

@appendixsec Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software---to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

@iftex
@appendixsec TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@center TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
@end ifinfo

@enumerate 0
@item
This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The ``Program'', below,
refers to any such program or work, and a ``work based on the Program''
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term ``modification''.)  Each licensee is addressed as ``you''.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

@item
You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

@item
You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

@enumerate a
@item
You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

@item
You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.

@item
If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
the Program is not required to print an announcement.)
@end enumerate

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

@item
You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

@enumerate a
@item
Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

@item
Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

@item
Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
received the program in object code or executable form with such
an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)
@end enumerate

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

@item
You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

@item
You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

@item
Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

@item
If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

@item
If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

@item
The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and ``any
later version'', you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

@item
If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

@iftex
@heading NO WARRANTY
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@center NO WARRANTY
@end ifinfo

@item
BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM ``AS IS'' WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

@item
IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
@end enumerate

@iftex
@heading END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@center END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
@end ifinfo

@page
@appendixsec Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the ``copyright'' line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

@smallexample
@var{one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.}
Copyright (C) @var{yyyy}  @var{name of author}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
@end smallexample

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

@smallexample
Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19@var{yy} @var{name of author}
Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.
@end smallexample

The hypothetical commands @samp{show w} and @samp{show c} should show
the appropriate parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the
commands you use may be called something other than @samp{show w} and
@samp{show c}; they could even be mouse-clicks or menu items---whatever
suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a ``copyright disclaimer'' for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

@example
Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

@var{signature of Ty Coon}, 1 April 1989
Ty Coon, President of Vice
@end example

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.


@node Concept Index,  , GNU General Public License, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye

@c Local Variables:
@c ispell-local-pdict: "ispell-dict"
@c End:
