
This is the README file for the Emacs Muse.

The terms "the Emacs Muse", "Emacs Muse", and "Muse" will be used
interchangeably throughout this document to refer to this software.

Synopsis
========

Emacs Muse is an authoring and publishing environment for Emacs.  It
simplifies the process of writings documents and publishing them to
various output formats.

Muse consists of two main parts: an enhanced text-mode for authoring
documents and navigating within Muse projects, and a set of publishing
styles for generating different kinds of output.

Directory contents
==================

The directory structure is as follows.

The manual (muse.texi) is in the top-level directory.

contrib :: Files that are not a part of Muse proper, but are useful
           enough to be bundled with Muse.

examples :: Example configuration files for use with Muse, as well as
            a publishable quickstart guide.

experimental :: Source code that is not yet considered stable.

lisp :: Muse source code.

scripts :: Scripts that are used when publishing the QuickStart
           document; they might prove useful if you want to automate
           the building of Muse documents.

Getting started
===============

Compilation
-----------

This is an optional step, since Emacs Lisp source code does not
necessarily have to be byte-compiled.  It will yield a speed increase,
though.

A working copy of Emacs or XEmacs is needed in order to compile the
Emacs Muse.  By default, the program that is installed with the name
`emacs' will be used.

If you want to use the `xemacs' binary to perform the compilation, you
would need to edit `Makefile.defs' in the top-level directory as
follows.  You can put either a full path to an Emacs or XEmacs binary
or just the command name, as long as it is in the PATH.

EMACS    = xemacs
SITEFLAG = -no-site-file

Running `make' should compile the Muse source files in the `lisp'
directory.

Installation
------------

Muse may be installed into your file hierarchy by doing the following.

Edit the `Makefile.defs' file so that ELISPDIR points to where you
want the source and compiled Muse files to be installed and INFODIR
indicates where to put the Muse manual.  Of course, you will want to
edit EMACS and SITEFLAG as shown in the Compilation section if you are
using XEmacs.

Run `make' as a normal user.

Run `make install' as the root user if you have chosen installation
locations that require this.

Insinuation
-----------

Two things need to happen in order for Muse to be usable with your
version of Emacs or XEmacs.

 1. The location of the Muse directory needs to be added to the load
    path so that your variant of Emacs can find it.

 2. You need to load whichever Muse files you wish to make use of.

A quick example that accomplishes both of these follows.

;; Add this to your .emacs or .xemacs/init.el file.
(setq load-path (add-to-list 'load-path "/path/to/muse"))
(require 'muse-mode)

Documentation
-------------

The Muse manual may be generated by running `make doc'.

It will produce two files: an Info file called `muse.info' and an HTML
document called `muse.html'.

QuickStart
----------

Type "make examples" to generate a quickstart guide for Muse.  An HTML
document called QuickStart.html, an Info document called
QuickStart.info, and a PDF file called QuickStart.pdf will be created
in the `examples' directory.

If you do not have a working LaTeX installation with the proper fonts,
the PDF file will not be successfully generated.

To see the document that is interpreted in order to generate these
files, take a look at `examples/QuickStart'.

To view the generated Info document from within Emacs, try the
following.

C-u M-x info RET /path/to/muse/examples/QuickStart.info RET

Further Documentation
=====================

Please consult http://www.emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki/MuseMode to find
more information on bugs, unimplemented features, and user-contributed
tweaks.

A full manual is distributed with Muse in the `muse.texi' file.  If
you have installed Muse fully, it should be browsable from Info.
Alternatively, type `make muse.html' in the top-level directory in
order to make an HTML document.

The current maintainer's website is at
http://www.mwolson.org/projects/MuseMode.html.

A mailing list for Muse and some related software exists; consult
http://www.emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki/EmacsWikiMailingList for details
on joining it or viewing its contents.
